Focus Agent: LLM-Powered Virtual Focus Group
Taiyu Zhang
taiyu.zhang@kuleuven.be
KU Leuven
Leuven, Belgium
Xuesong Zhang
xuesong.zhang@kuleuven.be
KU Leuven
Leuven, Belgium
Robbe Cools
robbe.cools@kuleuven.be
KU Leuven
Leuven, Belgium
Adalberto L. Simeone
adalberto.simeone@kuleuven.be
KU Leuven
Leuven, Belgium
ABSTRACT
In the domain of Human-Computer Interaction, focus groups rep-
resent a widely utilised yet resource-intensive methodology, of-
ten demanding the expertise of skilled moderators and meticulous
preparatory efforts. This study introduces the “Focus Agent,” a
Large Language Model (LLM) powered framework that simulates
both the focus group (for data collection) and acts as a modera-
tor in a focus group setting with human participants. To assess
the data quality derived from the Focus Agent, we ran five focus
group sessions with a total of 23 human participants as well as
deploying the Focus Agent to simulate these discussions with AI
participants. Quantitative analysis indicates that Focus Agent can
generate opinions similar to those of human participants. Further-
more, the research exposes some improvements associated with
LLMs acting as moderators in focus group discussions that include
human participants.
CCS CONCEPTS
• Computing methodologies →Multi-agent planning; • Human-
centered computing →User studies; Virtual reality.
KEYWORDS
Human-computer Interaction, Intelligent Virtual Agent, Virtual
Focus Group, Multi Agent Simulation
ACM Reference Format:
Taiyu Zhang, Xuesong Zhang, Robbe Cools, and Adalberto L. Simeone. 2024.
Focus Agent: LLM-Powered Virtual Focus Group. In ACM International
Conference on Intelligent Virtual Agents (IVA ’24), September 16–19, 2024,
GLASGOW, United Kingdom. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 10 pages. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3652988.3673918
1
INTRODUCTION
In the domain of qualitative research, focus groups have emerged
as a widely adopted methodology and are extensively employed
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
IVA ’24, September 16–19, 2024, GLASGOW, United Kingdom
© 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-0625-7/24/09...$15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3652988.3673918
Figure 1: The AI moderator generates questions according
to the discussion content and plan, while AI Participants
discuss the prompt from the moderator.
in both industrial and academic contexts [26, 27, 30], thanks to its
structured group discussions aimed at gaining in-depth insights
into specific issues. Within Human-Computer Interaction (HCI),
researchers routinely employ focus groups as a vital tool in project
planning, evaluation, and data collection endeavours [30, 43, 45, 50].
Particularly noteworthy is the growing prominence of virtual focus
groups, especially in the post-COVID-19 era [25]. This transition
towards virtual focus groups can be attributed to their blending a
methodologically sound approach with the potential of engaging
with geographically dispersed and otherwise challenging to access
populations [51].
Organising a focus group presents two primary challenges: first,
gathering so many people at the same time is not an easy task,
especially when researchers are interested in exploring the lived
experiences of diverse or hard to reach groups [6, 17, 57]; second,
the success of a focus group relies on an experienced moderator
with domain-specific expertise. A moderator lacking experience
can disrupt the discussion flow or gather unproductive data [32].
These issues have sometimes hindered the adoption of focus groups
into certain HCI research efforts [40].
arXiv:2409.01907v1  [cs.HC]  3 Sep 2024
IVA ’24, September 16–19, 2024, GLASGOW, United Kingdom
Taiyu Zhang, Xuesong Zhang, Robbe Cools, and Adalberto L. Simeone
The advent of Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT,
offers a potential solution. These models can frequently commu-
nicate in text, generate diverse content from various perspectives
based on the large scale of text information on the internet [5, 38],
and demonstrate expertise across several fields, including social
sciences, healthcare, and education [28, 42]. Their capabilities ex-
tend to assisting with paper writing [10, 23], providing legal ad-
vice [24, 33], and supporting medical inquiries [19]. Given these
advancements, focus groups, a classic qualitative data collection
method, should benefit from LLMs. Despite their potential, these
models are prone to certain limitations such as misunderstanding
human instructions, generating potentially biased content, or fac-
tually incorrect (hallucinated) information [54]. Additional frame-
work design is still necessary for multi-agent tasks, such as societal
simulations [36] or role-playing game simulations [59].
This work introduces the “Focus Agent”, an LLM-based mod-
erator for focus groups that has two functions: 1) simulating dis-
cussions without human participants and collecting AI-generated
opinions, and 2) guiding focus groups as a moderator as shown in
Figure 1, with human participants as well. To address prevalent
issues in multi-agent simulations, including repetitive opinions and
the generation of irrelevant content, the “Focus Agent” employs
a scheduled discussion format that divides the focus group into
distinct stages, each corresponding to a specific topic. This method
mirrors the strategies employed by experienced human moderators.
Additionally, the framework incorporates reflection periods during
discussion to counteract memory loss during the simulation, ensur-
ing a coherent and productive discussion flow. When moderating
focus groups with human participants, a multi-person Speech-to-
Text (S2T) and Text-to-Speech (T2S) integration enables the “Focus
Agent” to interact with multiple users simultaneously.
Our work primarily explores the application of LLMs in simulat-
ing focus group discussions. Two main Research Questions (RQs)
are as follows:
RQ 1: To what extent do the opinions generated by a LLM align
with those of human participants in focus group?
RQ 2: To what extent is a LLM effective in performing the duties
of a moderator in focus group discussions?
To answer these RQs, we conducted a user study with 23 par-
ticipants across five discussion groups. Participants engaged in a
one-hour AI-moderated focus group discussion on the topic of “dig-
ital well-being”, followed by a 30-minute session led by a researcher
to share their experiences, evaluate the AI moderator’s performance
and collect feedback, which was referred as a meta focus group in
our work. Meanwhile, the Focus Agent simulated the focus group
discussions on the same topic with AI participants. Qualitative
analysis including thematic analysis and content analysis of the
transcriptions reveals that the AI simulation outputs the major-
ity of opinions expressed by human participants. Additionally, we
assessed the performance of the Focus Agent functioning as a mod-
erator, both in the focus group simulation with AI participants as
well as with focus groups involving human participants. Based on
our findings, the Focus Agent meets the essential criteria required
of a focus group moderator. This includes progressively guiding
discussions from general to more specific topics and maintaining an
actively engaged atmosphere, drawing on the fundamental literacy
expected of a focus group moderator [47]. However, when tasked
with moderating discussions involving human participants, the
agent’s ability to interact with humans seems constrained, and it
has not demonstrated sufficient understanding of human conversa-
tion. We identified several limitations of current LLMs in managing
multi-person discussions and offer suggestions for integrating AI
agents into focus group more effectively. To promote further re-
search, the code has been open-sourced1.
2
RELATED WORK
This section discusses previous research directly related to our study.
We divided it into three subsections: Focus Group Development,
Multi-Agent Simulation and Multi-speaker speech recognition for
Voice-based Conversational Agents.
2.1
Focus Group Development
The utilisation of focus groups, or group depth interviews, is a
cornerstone method within the realms of advertising, marketing,
and HCI research due to its effectiveness in gathering qualitative
insights [47]. The earliest focus groups were conducted through
face-to-face conversations, which make the organisation complex
and time-consuming, even with a lot of fees for participant reim-
bursement [40]. The popularity of online focus groups has aug-
mented their appeal, offering advantages such as the convenience
of participation from any location at any time, and anonymity,
which reduces participants’ apprehension of judgement [12, 46, 56].
Researchers inviting many people to participate in online meetings
at the same time often encounter difficulties, such as inconsistent
time schedules, time differences, and poor communication caused
by network delays. To further facilitate users’ participation in fo-
cus groups, some social media platforms provide asynchronous
text-based focus groups [4, 16, 39, 55]. However, as participants do
not contribute simultaneously, it brings some difficulties relating
to such a reduced ‘spontaneity’ [6, 34] including: shorter answers
with fewer word counts [8]; uneven flow during the interactions
due to their lag [52]; and more unfocused exchanges that do not
always address the relevant research question [6].
The recent advancements in LLMs, which are trained on exten-
sive internet text data, offer novel opportunities for conducting
focus groups. As an innovative retrieval model, LLMs have the
potential to streamline the data collection process [63]. Utilising
LLMs to simulate focus groups presents a simpler and potentially
more efficient alternative to engaging human participants, thereby
opening new avenues for qualitative research.
2.2
Multi-Agent Simulation
Despite the capability of LLMs to process one-on-one question-
answer formats, their deployment in long term dialogues and opin-
ion generation, such as focus group discussions, reveals some limi-
tations. These challenges include difficulties in understanding com-
plex instructions, hallucination of agents, a limited token memory
leading to loss of continuity, repetitive dialogues, and the genera-
tion of meaningless conversation in long-term interactions [35, 60].
To help solve these issues, recent research has come up with
new ways to organise how these AI agents think and respond,
tailored to specific kinds of tasks [36, 48]. The Chain-of-Thought
1https://github.com/AriaXR/FocusAgent
Focus Agent: LLM-Powered Virtual Focus Group
IVA ’24, September 16–19, 2024, GLASGOW, United Kingdom
(CoT) principle is pivotal, serving as the foundational idea behind
them [53]. By dissecting complex issues into simpler elements, it
facilitates a collaborative approach among multiple agents to tackle
each component, leading to a comprehensive solution. By decom-
posing complex problems into many simple parts, the solution is
achieved through the combined efforts of multiple small agents.
Additionally, the reflection mechanism plays a crucial role in ad-
dressing memory limitations and enhancing the authenticity of the
generated content [61]. This process involves storing detailed his-
torical data as structured information, which can be referenced for
more informed decision-making in future interactions. Moreover,
to improve the consistency of agent performance across various
contexts, some works have investigated the exploration of diverse
prompting techniques tailored to the specific roles [44].
In our work, we have built upon insights from previous research
to address potential challenges that could arise during focus group
discussions. Furthermore, we have developed a novel framework for
conducting focus groups, primarily guided by an AI moderator. The
AI moderator facilitates simulated focus group discussions and aids
in coordinating focus groups that include human participants. To
bridge the interaction gap with human participants, we incorporate
a voice-based conversational agent to the moderator.
2.3
Multi-speaker speech recognition for
Voice-based Conversational Agents
Unlike text-based chatbots, Voice-based Conversational Agents
(VCAs) necessitate an extra technological layer for operation: they
use a speech-to-text (S2T) process to interpret spoken inputs and a
text-to-speech (T2S) system for generating spoken responses [22,
41]. This integration allows VCAs to facilitate interactions in a more
natural, conversational manner, bridging the gap between human
users and digital assistants.
However, current S2T technologies, such as Google’s API or
OpenAI’s Whisper, encounter difficulties in long-term group dis-
cussions such as focus groups [37]. One challenge with using S2T
technologies like Whisper for multi-participant discussions is the
duration limit on voice recording inputs, which is considerably less
than the typical length of conversations. A potential solution in-
volves segmenting longer discussions into shorter fragments using
Voice Activity Detection (VAD), which helps manage recordings
more effectively [2]. Another limitation is lack of speaker differenti-
ation, a critical feature for understanding who is speaking in group
discussions. Some research has attempted to identify individual
speakers by analysing the unique timbre of their voices [20, 21, 31].
However, these methods often fall short in accuracy due to the
absence of prior information about the speakers. A more effective
approach involves using a pre-recorded sample from each speaker,
enabling a retrieval-based method to significantly improve perfor-
mance by accurately distinguishing between speakers [13].
In our work, we improved Whisper, an open-source S2T model,
with a retrieval-based technique, optimising it for multi-participant
discussions such as focus groups.
3
FOCUS AGENT IMPLEMENTATION
Our Focus Agent was designed to simulate focus group discussions
and facilitate running sessions involving human participants. For
the focus group simulation, we devised a multi-agent framework,
complemented by a moderator to oversee the entire focus group
process. This ensures that the contributions from AI participants
are both relevant and valuable. Regarding interactions with actual
human participants, we incorporated S2T and T2S systems into the
AI moderator, enabling voice-based communication.
3.1
Focus Group Simulation
Figure 2: A web demo of the Focus Group simulation system.
In accordance with the benchmark study conducted by Open-
Compass [11], the two most advanced Large Language Models
(LLMs) available in the field at the time of writing are ChatGPT
and GPT4. Pilot testing revealed that ChatGPT resulted in similar
opinions compared with GPT4, after which we decided not to use
the superior GPT4 due to its 20-fold increase in cost. Compared to
direct prompts, our algorithmic framework improves the realism
and comprehensiveness of the AI simulation, as corroborated in
Figure 2.
Initially, we attempted to employ a singular prompt to simulate
focus group discussions. However, concerning both content and
length, the generated outcomes significantly deviated from our
expectations. In response to these challenges, we introduce the
framework of our Focus Agent, featuring an AI moderator to guide
the discussion process. As shown in Figure 1, this AI moderator
generates some plans to divide the whole discussion into multiple
stages, aligning with the distinct topic and aims of the focus group.
Based on these guidelines, the AI moderator then facilitates a simu-
lated focus group discussion with other AI entities as participants.
Throughout the conversation, the moderator actively engages in
reflection, responding to the dialogue of the participants by timely
introducing pertinent questions to foster further discussion. We
explained this process in detail in the online appendix.
Within the simulated focus group, each participant represents
an artificial intelligence entity. Experimenters are responsible for
defining key parameters such as the topic, goals, overall duration,
and specific characteristics of the participants, which include names,
ages, occupations, nationalities, and personalities. In this setting,
LLMs are tasked with understanding the context through assigned
roles, typically categorised as system, user, and assistant. The sys-
tem role involves attributing virtual personas to the LLMs, while
the user and assistant roles are designed to aid in interpreting the
context either from the viewpoint of the designated character or
IVA ’24, September 16–19, 2024, GLASGOW, United Kingdom
Taiyu Zhang, Xuesong Zhang, Robbe Cools, and Adalberto L. Simeone
from that of others. To achieve this, we have developed a sequence
of prompt designs, the details of which are provided in the online
appendix.
To simulate the focus group discussion as realistically as possible,
we designed the algorithm of both moderator and participants. The
role of the moderator within the focus group simulation system
encompasses the critical responsibilities of guiding and orchestrat-
ing the discussion, which includes managing time allocation and
steering the discourse topics. These responsibilities are reflected
in the moderator’s thought chain, elucidated in Algorithm 1. We
added a reflection mechanism at the end of every stage to compress
the context of previous discussion to avoid memory lost. Time allo-
cation is managed based on text lengths, with a convention of one
hundred words equating to approximately one minute within the
simulation.
Algorithm 1 Moderator
Initialisation: 𝐿𝑖𝑠𝑡: [𝑆𝑡𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑠], 𝐿𝑖𝑠𝑡: [𝑇𝑖𝑚𝑒𝐴𝑟𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑔𝑒𝑚𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠]
Output: 𝑆𝑡𝑟: 𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑝𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑒
for all 𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑔𝑒,𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑔𝑒←𝑆𝑡𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑠,𝑇𝑖𝑚𝑒𝐴𝑟𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑔𝑒𝑚𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠do
𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑝𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑒←𝐿𝐿𝑀(𝑁𝑒𝑤𝑆𝑡𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑡)
𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒𝑐𝑢𝑟←𝐸𝑠𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑎𝑡𝑒(𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑝𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑒)
while 𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒𝑐𝑢𝑟< 𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑔𝑒do
if Response from participants then
𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑝𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑒←𝑃𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑐𝑖𝑝𝑎𝑛𝑡𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑝𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑒
else if any participant is inactivate then
𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑝𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑒←𝐿𝐿𝑀(𝐼𝑛𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑃𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑐𝑖𝑝𝑎𝑛𝑡𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑡)
else
𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑝𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑒←𝐿𝐿𝑀(𝐼𝑛𝑠𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑠𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑡)
end if
Update 𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒𝑐𝑢𝑟according to 𝐸𝑠𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑎𝑡𝑒(𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑝𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑒)
end while
end for
Algorithm 2 outlines the systematic approach adopted by each
AI participant throughout the discussion, with their level of en-
gagement assessed by the LLM. The LLM dynamically evaluates
the ongoing conversation and the contributions of other AI partici-
pants to gauge engagement levels. AI participants are provided the
latitude to contribute to the discussion uninterrupted unless they
surpass the stipulated time allocation. In instances where partici-
pants opt to disengage or exhibit novel ideas, signalling a lull in
the discourse, the moderator intervenes by posing new questions,
drawing inspiration from the preceding discussions. In parallel,
the moderator actively encourages less active participants to ac-
tively partake in the discourse. Participant activity is monitored
through the detection of speaking times within the ongoing stage.
Participants who exhibit negligible speaking activity or speaking
three times less than those of the most speaking participants are
categorised as inactive.
3.2
Voice-based Focus Agent with human
participants
To make sure the AI moderator can communicate with human
participants efficiently, S2T and T2S are necessary. APIs provided by
various companies are often suitable for many scenarios. However,
Algorithm 2 Participants
Initialization: 𝐿𝑖𝑠𝑡: [𝑃𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑐𝑖𝑝𝑎𝑛𝑡𝑠]
Output: 𝑆𝑡𝑟: 𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑝𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑒
repeat
𝑒𝑛𝑔𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑚𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠←[]
for all 𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑐𝑖𝑝𝑎𝑛𝑡in 𝑃𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑐𝑖𝑝𝑎𝑛𝑡𝑠do
𝑒𝑛𝑔𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑚𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠add 𝐿𝐿𝑀(𝐸𝑛𝑔𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑚𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑡)
end for
if 𝑀𝑎𝑥(𝑒𝑛𝑔𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑚𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠) ≥𝑇ℎ𝑟𝑒𝑠ℎ𝑜𝑙𝑑then
𝑠𝑝𝑒𝑎𝑘𝑒𝑟←𝑃𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑐𝑖𝑝𝑎𝑛𝑡𝑠[𝐼𝑛𝑑𝑒𝑥(𝑀𝑎𝑥(𝑒𝑛𝑔𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑚𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠))]
𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑝𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑒←𝐿𝐿𝑀(𝑃𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑝𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑒𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑡(𝑠𝑝𝑒𝑎𝑘𝑒𝑟))
end if
until Finished
they fall short of our specific needs for facilitating multi-participant
discussions in focus groups due to limitations related to the length
of input recordings and the absence of speaker differentiation. To
address these challenges, we have developed our own S2T system, as
depicted in Figure 3. This system processes long discussion audio by
segmenting it into shorter sentence-length audio pieces, leveraging
VAD for segmentation. Subsequently, it identifies the most similar
participant from a database of participant voices and transcribes the
audio using the open-source S2T model Whisper by OpenAI [37]. To
ensure participants have ample opportunity to express their views
without undue interruption, the AI moderator is programmed to
intervene only after a silence of 5 seconds, thus differing from
approaches that might actively disrupt the conversation flow.
Figure 3: Speech to Text system. We divided long audio record-
ing into short pieces with voice activity detection. Then we
transcribed the short audio pieces and recognised the speaker
according to the voiceprints collected in advance from the
participants.
In order to incorporate T2S functionality into our system, we
leveraged the Google TTS API2. To allow some participants who
are interested in discussion in an immersive environment, we es-
tablished the focus group environment within Mozilla Hubs3, a
Virtual Reality (VR) platform.
4
PILOT STUDY
To enhance user experience, we conducted a pilot study with four
volunteers before the main user study to assess the system’s stability
and the AI moderator’s effectiveness. The pilot included a 50-minute
2https://console.cloud.google.com/speech/text-to-speech
3https://hubs.mozilla.com
Focus Agent: LLM-Powered Virtual Focus Group
IVA ’24, September 16–19, 2024, GLASGOW, United Kingdom
focus group discussion and a 30-minute feedback session on the AI
agent’s performance.
Feedback from the pilot highlighted areas for improvement,
which were addressed to optimise the user study:
1. Human participants may not always have insights for ev-
ery query, unlike AI participants who consistently generate
new content. Observations showed the AI moderator might
repeat questions if there were no responses, leading to stag-
nation. We adjusted the AI moderator’s protocol to move on
if no further responses were forthcoming.
2. Anonymity in Summaries: Volunteers were uncomfortable
with being mentioned by name in summaries. We revised the
process to ensure participant anonymity, enhancing comfort
levels.
3. Conciseness of Questions: The long content generated by
LLMs are not ideal for verbal interactions. We refined prompts
to yield shorter responses.
Additionally, we assessed the S2T system’s accuracy to ensure
comprehensive transcription and understanding by the agent. The
Word Error Rate (WER)4 served as the evaluation metric. Profes-
sional human transcribers typically achieve a WER of 11.3% in open
conversational settings [58]. Using this as a benchmark, we found
our S2T system achieved a WER of 4.6%, demonstrating commend-
able accuracy. For speaker identification, our system achieved a
micro F1 Score of 0.81 using the EN2001 audio segment from the
AMI Corpus [7], highlighting its capability in recognising speak-
ers. The pilot study indicated the agent exhibited no significant
misunderstandings of the conversations.
5
USER STUDY
To investigate our research questions, we designed a user study
that involved human participants engaging in focus group discus-
sions on the theme of “digital well-being,” alongside simulations of
focus groups centred around the same topic. The objective of these
sessions was to study individual practices in managing screen time
and their perceptions of its impact on mental health. The choice
of “digital well-being” as the focal topic was strategic, given its
universal relevance, which facilitated participant recruitment. Par-
ticipants had the option to join the focus groups either via a VR
headset or through their personal computers, aiming for device
consistency within groups to streamline the discussion dynamics,
as shown in Figure 4.
Demographics. Our recruitment efforts yielded 23 participants,
where we assigned 11 to join with VR headset and 12 to join with
their own personal computer. The participant pool had an average
age of 30 years (𝑚𝑖𝑛= 18, 𝑚𝑎𝑥= 60, 𝑆𝐷= 10), distributed across
five groups–three with VR headset and two with desktop. Each
group comprised 3 to 6 individuals, ensuring a diverse range of
perspectives and experiences. The selection of the total number of
groups is based on previous work [18], which has demonstrated
that five groups are optimal for focus group studies.
Procedure. The user study included three distinct components:
a primary focus group involving human participants (hereafter
4WER is a metric for gauging speech-to-text conversion accuracy, calculated as𝑊𝐸𝑅=
(𝑆+ 𝐷+ 𝐼)/𝑁, where 𝑆denotes substitutions, 𝐷deletions, 𝐼insertions, and 𝑁the
total number of words in the reference text.
referred to as “focus group”), a meta focus group where human
participants convened to reflect on their experiences within the
focus group (hereafter referred to as “meta focus group”), and a
simulated focus group with AI entities as participants (hereafter
referred to as “focus group simulation”).
First, participants submitted a one-minute self-introduction au-
dio recording before the focus group. This recording collected de-
mographic information (age, prior focus group experience, and
daily screen usage) and provided a unique voice print for each
participant. This data initialised the AI participants in the simu-
lation. We assessed English proficiency based on the accuracy of
the S2T results from their recordings. Then participants accessed
the designated meeting rooms in Mozilla Hubs. For VR groups,
our team provided VR headsets (Quest series or Vive Pro), while
the desktop group used their own PCs. Once all participants were
ready, the researcher started the system, and the AI moderator be-
gan moderating the focus group. An author observed and recorded
essential information throughout the sessions. The sessions were
scheduled for 60 minutes, with an actual average duration of 51
minutes (𝑆𝐷= 13𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑢𝑡𝑒𝑠).
Following the conclusion of each focus group discussion, a meta
focus group was conducted. This session spanned approximately
20 minutes and was facilitated by one of the authors. The topic of
the meta focus group mainly focuses on two points: the experience
of focus group discussion and the attitude to the AI moderator.
At the end, each participant received a 10€ gift card as compen-
sation. This study was reviewed and approved by the university’s
ethics review board.
Figure 4: Users participant focus group using Focus Agent in
VR environment.
6
RESULT ANALYSIS
Following the methodological framework proposed by Gerling
et al. [15], we employed both thematic and content analyses to scru-
tinise the transcripts derived from the focus group and focus group
simulation sessions. Additionally, thematic analysis was specifically
applied to the meta focus group discussions to collect participant
feedback. For the transcription of data from the user study, we
utilised the outputs from our S2T system, subsequently refining
these transcripts against the recorded audio by two researchers.
The final evaluation of our S2T system showcased a WER of 2.5%
and an F1 score of 0.9, indicating a level of performance sufficiently
reliable for the purposes of our study. Due to recording issues, the
IVA ’24, September 16–19, 2024, GLASGOW, United Kingdom
Taiyu Zhang, Xuesong Zhang, Robbe Cools, and Adalberto L. Simeone
data from the third focus group session was incomplete. The tran-
scription for this group was reconstructed based on recollections
and notes taken by an observer, and consequently, this data was
not included in the accuracy assessment of the S2T system. The
initial analysis was conducted by the lead author, with the findings
subsequently reviewed and validated by the co-authors.
6.1
Focus Group
In the thematic analysis conducted on the transcriptions from both
the human focus group and the focus group simulations, we elicited
distinct themes related to our study topic. From the transcriptions,
we identified four central themes. In contrast, the focus group sim-
ulations revealed five themes, incorporating an additional theme
focused on the challenges associated with controlling screen time.
This discrepancy mainly came from the differences in moderation
performance between the two groups. In the focus group simula-
tions, the AI moderator tends to guide AI participants to engage
more deeply with the topics. While human participants in the focus
group did broach additional topics, these were less related to the
central theme of discussion, highlighting a contrast in how thematic
expansion was handled across the two settings.
In our content analysis, we derived 39 unique codes from the
focus group transcriptions and 47 from the focus group simulations,
each reflecting various facets of the discussion topic. To compare
the perspectives of AI and human participants, we illustrated the
overlap and divergence of these codes through a Venn diagram,
as showcased in Figure 5. The analysis revealed that the majority
of opinions expressed by human participants were also covered
by AI participants. Interestingly, AI participants introduced sev-
eral viewpoints not raised by their human counterparts, such as
volunteering online during daily screen usage, adding additional
dimensions to the discussion. Another observation from this analy-
sis is the tendency of AI participants to express similar opinions
more than human participants across different focus group ses-
sions. The data referenced in Figure 6 reveal a discrepancy in code
generation between simulation and focus groups. Each iteration
of the focus group can collect similar number of codes. The result
indicates that simulations of focus groups tend to generate higher
repetition of identical codes. Following several iterations, the aggre-
gate of unique codes converges, suggesting that the most common
opinions have been collected. At this point, AI participants can
not generate new codes, whereas human participants continue to
demonstrate potential for such creativity. This observation under-
scores the tendency of AI to produce more common opinions, while
human participants display greater variance and individuality in
their perspectives.
6.2
Meta Focus Group
According to the transcriptions of the meta focus group, we coded
51 data points and identified three main themes.
We derived three themes from the data: 1) User Experiences of
the Virtual Focus Group; 2) User Attitudes towards the Focus Agent,
which is further divided into two sub-themes: a) Positive Attitudes,
and b) Negative Attitudes; and 3) Feedback on the Virtual Focus
Group System.
Theme 1: User Experiences of Focus Group. A majority of par-
ticipants conveyed satisfaction with the focus group discussions,
highlighting several reasons. For many, the topics discussed were
directly relevant to their daily lives, adding value to their partic-
ipation. As one participant explained, “I think it’s great to discuss
these topics because that’s what we deal with every day.” (G5, P4).
Furthermore, participants appreciated the diversity of perspectives
present, valuing the opportunity to exchange experiences. An ex-
emplifying statement reads, “I think you bring up so many great
points. It’s very enriching to hear different perspectives.” (G5, P3). At
the end of the discussions, the moderator inquired whether partici-
pants had any additional opinions on the topic that they had not
had the opportunity to express during the session. All participants
confirmed that they had no further insights to share, indicating
that the discussions had comprehensively covered the topic from
their perspectives.
Theme 2: Attitude to the Focus Agent. The second theme encap-
sulates the users’ feedback and experiences with Focus Agent. This
theme is divided into two categories: positive and negative, to pro-
vide a clearer understanding of the users’ attitudes towards Focus
Agent.
SubTheme 1: positive attitude. A prevalent sentiment among
participants was their appreciation for the guidance offered by the
Focus Agent, acknowledging its efficacy in steering the discussions.
As an example, one participant remarked, “The moderator kind of
did a good job by posing questions that allowed us to express our
thoughts and encouraged other participants to share their sentiments
on the topic.” (G4, P1). Furthermore, three participants specifically
commended the Focus Agent’s clear articulation in English, while
an additional participant admired the agent’s friendly demeanour.
SubTheme 2: Negative attitude. The prevailing sentiment among
participants leaned towards dissatisfaction with the Focus Agent’s
performance. A recurring concern revolved around the repetition
of questions, as one participant articulated, “I found it somewhat
confusing at times since the moderator repeated the questions several
times, which we had already discussed” (G1, P2). Another noteworthy
issue was the perceived lack of intellectual acumen exhibited by
the Focus Agent during discussions. For example, one participant
expressed, “I don’t believe it possesses true intelligence, nor does it
seem capable of comprehending all the information we’ve conveyed,
let alone guiding us into more profound and coherent discussions” (G5,
P2). At last, some biases were identified in the discussion, notably
in steering participants towards articulating the adverse effects
associated with prolonged screen use, “When discussing the impact
of long screen using time, I felt that the AI moderator tried to demonise
the technology. (G1, P1)”.
Theme 3: Feedback on virtual focus group system. The third theme
encapsulates certain system issues encountered during the use
of Focus Agent. A concern raised by some participants was the
insufficient time allocated for responding to questions, resulting in
interruptions by the agent. As articulated by one participant, “There
were instances where we were attempting to respond to a question or
had just commenced our response when the moderator interrupted us
and swiftly moved on to the next question” (G3, P3). Furthermore,
two participants recommended the incorporation of subtitles to
augment their understanding of the questions posed.
Focus Agent: LLM-Powered Virtual Focus Group
IVA ’24, September 16–19, 2024, GLASGOW, United Kingdom
Figure 5: Content analysis according to the themes from both focus group and focus group simulation, font size indicates the
frequency of the codes
Figure 6: Unique code number increased according to the
round of focus group and focus group simulation.
7
DISCUSSION
In this discussion, we address the RQs through our findings and
expand on the underlying reasons informed by our analysis.
7.1
RQ1: To what extent do the opinions
generated by a LLM align with those of
human participants in focus group?
The content analysis of the focus group discussions revealed that
opinions generated by AI tend to encompass a wide array of hu-
man perspectives within the designated topic. Nevertheless, these
AI-generated opinions often reflected more common viewpoints,
demonstrating a lack of the uniqueness commonly found in human
responses. A possible explanation is that, unlike human partici-
pants, who dynamically build upon previous contributions and
enrich discussions with personal experiences, AI responses largely
appeared as potentially plausible experiences that might happen to
people.
This observation suggests that LLMs could serve as a tool for
researchers aiming to streamline the focus group process with
human participants. By deploying a Focus Agent, researchers could
initially gather a broad spectrum of common opinions on a specific
topic, thereby setting a foundational understanding of the expected
participant responses. This could further assist in refining the focus
group’s questions and topics, making the discussion more targeted
and efficient. Therefore, fewer human focus group sessions may be
required to confirm the AI-generated content and identify novel
insights from participants, optimising the research process while
still uncovering the unique, creative perspectives that only human
IVA ’24, September 16–19, 2024, GLASGOW, United Kingdom
Taiyu Zhang, Xuesong Zhang, Robbe Cools, and Adalberto L. Simeone
participants can provide. However, human participants are still
necessary for current focus groups to make sure the data is reliable.
7.2
RQ2: To what extent is a LLM effective in
performing the duties of a moderator in
focus group discussions?
During the focus group simulations, LLMs demonstrated sufficient
knowledge to facilitate the group and engage with AI participants
effectively. Feedback from the meta focus group indicated that
human participants acknowledged the AI moderator’s capability
to support the discussion, albeit perceiving it more as a tool rather
than a sentient interlocutor. This perception was attributed to the
AI moderator’s lack of apparent intelligence in interactions, such
as overlooking participant requests, posing repetitive questions, or
failing to grasp the hints behind conversations.
The primary challenges are rooted in the inherent limitations of
LLMs in navigating multi-person dialogues. For LLMs to respond ap-
propriately, they must comprehend inputs from human participants,
reason through the conversation’s context, and formulate accurate
responses. While their reasoning capacity seemed adequate during
simulations, issues predominantly arose in understanding and re-
sponse generation phases. Existing research has begun to address
LLMs’ comprehension issues when assisting humans, yet their effec-
tiveness in multi-participant discussions remains constrained [14].
From an understanding standpoint, discussions among human par-
ticipants often involve colloquial language and incomplete sen-
tences, differing markedly from the more structured exchanges with
AI, leading to the AI moderator’s difficulties in recognising whether
questions had been answered. Consequently, the AI moderator
might repetitively address the same points rather than progressing
the discussion. Additionally, challenges in generating aligned and
unbiased content persist within LLM outputs [49, 54]. Although
not the primary focus of our study, participants noted issues such
as deviation from guidelines or biases in the discussion (see subsec-
tion 6.2), underscoring the LLMs’ limitations in mimicking human
conversational norms accurately.
Given these observations, we advise against deploying the Focus
Agent as the sole moderator in focus group discussions due to
the current inadequacies in human-AI communication. Instead,
the AI-generated summaries and questions could be utilised by
human moderators to streamline the discussion flow and address
specific topics. For more in-depth discussions, the presence of a
human moderator is essential to ensure a positive user experience
and foster the generation of innovative insights, highlighting the
complementary roles of AI and human moderators in enhancing
the efficacy of focus groups.
7.3
Improvement of Focus Agent
Based on the process of the user study and the insights gathered dur-
ing the meta focus group, several areas for enhancing the structure
and functionality of the Focus Agent have been identified:
1. Design of thought chain: Although the thought chain in our
work shows enough ability to facilitate the focus group discussion,
to be able to facilitate a deeper topic during discussion a more
complex design is required, for example one such as the tree of
thoughts [62].
2. Subtitles for the Focus Agent’s speech: Participants suggested
that the speech of the Focus Agent might be too long for them to be
able to comprehend a question in its entirety. In this case, subtitles
would be a useful help.
3. Time schedule of Focus Agent: the Time allocation was a pre-
determined time duration. However, the time should be allocated
according to the participants’ engagement in the current discussion.
In this case, the Focus Agent should make dynamic time allocations
based on the flow of the discussion.
8
LIMITATION AND FUTURE WORK
Our investigation underscores several limitations that pave the way
for future research directions.
First, the current iteration of the Focus Agent is limited to text-
based interactions, differing significantly from the multi-modal
nature of human moderation. Human moderators use non-verbal
cues and physical context to tailor their approach, which text-only
agents cannot replicate. This limitation is particularly challenging
in settings involving tactile or visual elements. However, advance-
ments in sophisticated LLMs like GPT-4, which understand multi-
modal data [35], could evolve the Focus Agent into a more versatile,
multi-modal platform that closely simulates human discussions.
Second, our study centres on LLM application within focus
groups, overlooking broader quantitative and qualitative research
methodologies. Prior studies have used LLMs to generate reviews
or comments [9, 29], noting that LLM-generated opinions may
lack human creativity [3]. Ensuring the validity of these insights
requires extensive empirical validation.
Lastly, our analysis highlights the difficulties LLMs face in multi-
participant discussions. While there is some research on one-on-one
dialogues and all-AI discussions [1], studies on mixed human-AI
communication in group settings are scarce. The ability of LLMs
to engage in multi-human conversations is crucial for advancing
human-AI interaction. Future research should explore how human
participants adjust their communication strategies in the presence
of AI, aiming to optimise these interactions for better collaborative
outcomes.
9
CONCLUSION
Our research introduced the Focus Agent, a novel AI simulation
system developed to simulate focus group discussions through the
dialogue of AI agents. This system aims to gather insights akin to
those derived from traditional focus groups, leveraging the capabil-
ities of AI participants to generate discussions on designated topics.
To assess the degree of alignment between the viewpoints expressed
by AI and human participants, we ran a user study that employed
an AI moderator to facilitate discussions among human participants.
Our analysis uncovered that the Focus Agent includes opinions that
similar to those of human participants. Additionally, we studied
human participants’ perceptions of the AI moderator and found
that while the AI could fulfil the functional role of a moderator,
there remained some differences in the interaction experience com-
pared to engagement with human moderators. We examined the
underlying reasons and identified specific areas within the large
language model’s capabilities that require further enhancement.
Focus Agent: LLM-Powered Virtual Focus Group
IVA ’24, September 16–19, 2024, GLASGOW, United Kingdom
REFERENCES
[1] Zahra Abbasiantaeb, Yifei Yuan, Evangelos Kanoulas, and Mohammad Alianne-
jadi. 2024. Let the llms talk: Simulating human-to-human conversational qa via
zero-shot llm-to-llm interactions. In Proceedings of the 17th ACM International
Conference on Web Search and Data Mining. 8–17.
[2] Max Bain, Jaesung Huh, Tengda Han, and Andrew Zisserman. 2023. WhisperX:
Time-Accurate Speech Transcription of Long-Form Audio. INTERSPEECH 2023
(2023).
[3] Emily M Bender, Timnit Gebru, Angelina McMillan-Major, and Shmargaret
Shmitchell. 2021. On the dangers of stochastic parrots: Can language models
be too big?. In Proceedings of the 2021 ACM conference on fairness, accountability,
and transparency. 610–623.
[4] Narelle Biedermann. 2018. The use of Facebook for virtual asynchronous focus
groups in qualitative research. Contemporary nurse 54, 1 (2018), 26–34.
[5] Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan,
Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda
Askell, et al. 2020. Language models are few-shot learners. Advances in neural
information processing systems 33 (2020), 1877–1901.
[6] Elisabeth Brüggen and Pieter Willems. 2009. A critical comparison of offline
focus groups, online focus groups and e-Delphi. International Journal of Market
Research 51, 3 (2009), 1–15.
[7] Jean Carletta. 2006. Announcing the AMI meeting corpus. The ELRA Newsletter
11, 1 (2006), 3–5.
[8] Julienne Chen and Pearlyn Neo. 2019. Texting the waters: An assessment of
focus groups conducted via the WhatsApp smartphone messaging application.
Methodological Innovations 12, 3 (2019), 2059799119884276.
[9] Yun-Shiuan Chuang, Agam Goyal, Nikunj Harlalka, Siddharth Suresh, Robert
Hawkins, Sijia Yang, Dhavan Shah, Junjie Hu, and Timothy T Rogers. 2023.
Simulating Opinion Dynamics with Networks of LLM-based Agents. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2311.09618 (2023).
[10] Edward J Ciaccio. 2023. Use of artificial intelligence in scientific paper writing. ,
101253 pages.
[11] OpenCompass Contributors. 2023. OpenCompass: A Universal Evaluation Plat-
form for Foundation Models. https://github.com/InternLM/OpenCompass.
[12] Nicola Daniels, Patricia Gillen, Karen Casson, and Iseult Wilson. 2019. STEER:
Factors to consider when designing online focus groups using audiovisual tech-
nology in health research. International Journal of Qualitative Methods 18 (2019),
1609406919885786.
[13] Brecht Desplanques, Jenthe Thienpondt, and Kris Demuynck. 2020. Ecapa-
tdnn: Emphasized channel attention, propagation and aggregation in tdnn based
speaker verification. arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.07143 (2020).
[14] Xin Luna Dong, Seungwhan Moon, Yifan Ethan Xu, Kshitiz Malik, and Zhou Yu.
2023. Towards next-generation intelligent assistants leveraging llm techniques.
In Proceedings of the 29th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and
Data Mining. 5792–5793.
[15] Kathrin Gerling, Patrick Dickinson, Kieran Hicks, Liam Mason, Adalberto L
Simeone, and Katta Spiel. 2020. Virtual reality games for people using wheelchairs.
In Proceedings of the 2020 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems.
1–11.
[16] Allegra R Gordon, Jerel P Calzo, Rose Eiduson, Kendall Sharp, Scout Silverstein,
Ethan Lopez, Katharine Thomson, and Sari L Reisner. 2021. Asynchronous online
focus groups for health research: case study and lessons learned. International
journal of qualitative methods 20 (2021), 1609406921990489.
[17] Marie-France Gratton and Susan O’Donnell. 2011. Communication technologies
for focus groups with remote communities: a case study of research with First
Nations in Canada. Qualitative Research 11, 2 (2011), 159–175.
[18] Greg Guest, Emily Namey, and Kevin McKenna. 2017. How many focus groups
are enough? Building an evidence base for nonprobability sample sizes. Field
methods 29, 1 (2017), 3–22.
[19] Claudia E Haupt and Mason Marks. 2023. AI-generated medical advice—GPT
and beyond. Jama 329, 16 (2023), 1349–1350.
[20] Shota Horiguchi, Yusuke Fujita, Shinji Watanabe, Yawen Xue, and Kenji Naga-
matsu. 2020. End-to-end speaker diarization for an unknown number of speakers
with encoder-decoder based attractors. arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.09921 (2020).
[21] Shota Horiguchi, Paola Garcia, Yusuke Fujita, Shinji Watanabe, and Kenji Naga-
matsu. 2021.
End-to-end speaker diarization as post-processing. In ICASSP
2021-2021 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
(ICASSP). IEEE, 7188–7192.
[22] Kristina Jokinen and Michael McTear. 2022. Spoken dialogue systems. Springer
Nature.
[23] Oğuzhan Katar, Dilek ÖZKAN, Özal YILDIRIM, U Rajendra Acharya, et al. 2023.
Evaluation of GPT-3 AI language model in research paper writing. Turkish
Journal of Science and Technology 18, 2 (2023), 311–318.
[24] Daniel Martin Katz, Michael James Bommarito, Shang Gao, and Pablo Arredondo.
2024. Gpt-4 passes the bar exam. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society
A 382, 2270 (2024), 20230254.
[25] Sam Keen, Martha Lomeli-Rodriguez, and Helene Joffe. 2022. From challenge to
opportunity: virtual qualitative research during COVID-19 and beyond. Interna-
tional Journal of Qualitative Methods 21 (2022), 16094069221105075.
[26] Jenny Kitzinger. 1994. The methodology of focus groups: the importance of
interaction between research participants. Sociology of health & illness 16, 1
(1994), 103–121.
[27] Jenny Kitzinger. 1995. Qualitative research: introducing focus groups. Bmj 311,
7000 (1995), 299–302.
[28] Anis Koubaa. 2023. GPT-4 vs. GPT-3.5: A concise showdown. (2023).
[29] Weixin Liang, Yuhui Zhang, Hancheng Cao, Binglu Wang, Daisy Ding, Xinyu
Yang, Kailas Vodrahalli, Siyu He, Daniel Smith, Yian Yin, et al. 2023. Can large
language models provide useful feedback on research papers? A large-scale
empirical analysis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.01783 (2023).
[30] Riccardo Mazza. 2006. Evaluating information visualization applications with
focus groups: the CourseVis experience. In Proceedings of the 2006 AVI workshop
on BEyond time and errors: novel evaluation methods for information visualization.
1–6.
[31] Ivan Medennikov, Maxim Korenevsky, Tatiana Prisyach, Yuri Khokhlov, Mariya
Korenevskaya, Ivan Sorokin, Tatiana Timofeeva, Anton Mitrofanov, Andrei An-
drusenko, Ivan Podluzhny, et al. 2020. Target-speaker voice activity detection: a
novel approach for multi-speaker diarization in a dinner party scenario. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2005.07272 (2020).
[32] Barry Nagle and Nichelle Williams. 2013. Methodology brief: Introduction to
focus groups. Center for Assessment, Planning and Accountability 1-12 (2013).
[33] John J Nay, David Karamardian, Sarah B Lawsky, Wenting Tao, Meghana Bhat,
Raghav Jain, Aaron Travis Lee, Jonathan H Choi, and Jungo Kasai. 2024. Large
language models as tax attorneys: a case study in legal capabilities emergence.
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A 382, 2270 (2024), 20230159.
[34] David B Nicholas, Lucy Lach, Gillian King, Marjorie Scott, Katherine Boydell,
Bonita J Sawatzky, Joe Reisman, Erika Schippel, and Nancy L Young. 2010. Con-
trasting internet and face-to-face focus groups for children with chronic health
conditions: Outcomes and participant experiences. International Journal of Qual-
itative Methods 9, 1 (2010), 105–121.
[35] R OpenAI. 2023. GPT-4 technical report. arXiv (2023), 2303–08774.
[36] Joon Sung Park, Joseph C O’Brien, Carrie J Cai, Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy
Liang, and Michael S Bernstein. 2023. Generative agents: Interactive simulacra
of human behavior. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.03442 (2023).
[37] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Tao Xu, Greg Brockman, Christine McLeavey,
and Ilya Sutskever. 2022. Robust Speech Recognition via Large-Scale Weak
Supervision. arXiv:2212.04356 [eess.AS]
[38] Laria Reynolds and Kyle McDonell. 2021. Prompt programming for large language
models: Beyond the few-shot paradigm. In Extended Abstracts of the 2021 CHI
Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. 1–7.
[39] Brendan Richard, Stephen A Sivo, Robert C Ford, Jamie Murphy, David N Boote,
Eleanor Witta, and Marissa Orlowski. 2021. A guide to conducting online fo-
cus groups via Reddit. International journal of qualitative methods 20 (2021),
16094069211012217.
[40] Stephanie Rosenbaum, Gilbert Cockton, Kara Coyne, Michael Muller, and Thyra
Rauch. 2002. Focus groups in HCI: wealth of information or waste of resources?.
In CHI’02 extended abstracts on human factors in computing systems. 702–703.
[41] Daniel Rough and Benjamin Cowan. 2020. Don’t Believe The Hype! White Lies of
Conversational User Interface Creation Tools. In Proceedings of the 2nd Conference
on Conversational User Interfaces. 1–3.
[42] Malik Sallam. 2023. ChatGPT utility in healthcare education, research, and
practice: systematic review on the promising perspectives and valid concerns. In
Healthcare, Vol. 11. MDPI, 887.
[43] Felicitas Selter, Kirsten Persson, Peter Kunzmann, and Gerald Neitzke. 2023.
End-of-life decisions: A focus group study with German health professionals
from human and veterinary medicine. Frontiers in Veterinary Science 10 (2023),
1044561.
[44] Murray Shanahan, Kyle McDonell, and Laria Reynolds. 2023. Role play with
large language models. Nature 623, 7987 (2023), 493–498.
[45] Renée E Stalmeijer, Nancy McNaughton, and Walther NKA Van Mook. 2014.
Using focus groups in medical education research: AMEE Guide No. 91. Medical
teacher 36, 11 (2014), 923–939.
[46] David W Stewart and Prem Shamdasani. 2017. Online focus groups. Journal of
Advertising 46, 1 (2017), 48–60.
[47] David W Stewart and Prem N Shamdasani. 2014. Focus groups: Theory and practice.
Vol. 20. Sage publications.
[48] Yashar Talebirad and Amirhossein Nadiri. 2023. Multi-agent collaboration: Har-
nessing the power of intelligent llm agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.03314
(2023).
[49] Amir Taubenfeld, Yaniv Dover, Roi Reichart, and Ariel Goldstein. 2024. Systematic
biases in LLM simulations of debates. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.04049 (2024).
[50] Indrit Troshani, Sally Rao Hill, Claire Sherman, and Damien Arthur. 2021. Do
we trust in AI? Role of anthropomorphism and intelligence. Journal of Computer
Information Systems 61, 5 (2021), 481–491.
IVA ’24, September 16–19, 2024, GLASGOW, United Kingdom
Taiyu Zhang, Xuesong Zhang, Robbe Cools, and Adalberto L. Simeone
[51] Lyn Turney and Catherine Pocknee. 2005. Virtual focus groups: New frontiers in
research. International Journal of Qualitative Methods 4, 2 (2005), 32–43.
[52] Braian Veloso. 2020. WHATSAPP COMO FERRAMENTA PARA A ORGANI-
ZAÇÃO DE GRUPOS FOCAIS ONLINE NA PESQUISA DA EDUCAÇÃO: UM
RELATO DE EXPERIÊNCIA. In Anais do CIET: EnPED: 2020-(Congresso Inter-
nacional de Educação e Tecnologias| Encontro de Pesquisadores em Educação a
Distância).
[53] Lei Wang, Chen Ma, Xueyang Feng, Zeyu Zhang, Hao Yang, Jingsen Zhang,
Zhiyuan Chen, Jiakai Tang, Xu Chen, Yankai Lin, et al. 2023. A survey on large
language model based autonomous agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.11432 (2023).
[54] Yufei Wang, Wanjun Zhong, Liangyou Li, Fei Mi, Xingshan Zeng, Wenyong
Huang, Lifeng Shang, Xin Jiang, and Qun Liu. 2023. Aligning large language
models with human: A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.12966 (2023).
[55] Guillaume Wenzek, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Alexis Conneau, Vishrav Chaudhary,
Francisco Guzmán, Armand Joulin, and Edouard Grave. 2019. CCNet: Extract-
ing high quality monolingual datasets from web crawl data. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1911.00359 (2019).
[56] J Michael Wilkerson, Alex Iantaffi, Jeremy A Grey, Walter O Bockting, and
BR Simon Rosser. 2014. Recommendations for internet-based qualitative health
research with hard-to-reach populations. Qualitative health research 24, 4 (2014),
561–574.
[57] Andrea L Wirtz, Erin E Cooney, Aeysha Chaudhry, Sari L Reisner, and American
Cohort To Study HIV Acquisition Among Transgender Women. 2019. Computer-
mediated communication to facilitate synchronous online focus group discus-
sions: feasibility study for qualitative HIV research among transgender women
across the United States. Journal of medical Internet research 21, 3 (2019), e12569.
[58] Wayne Xiong, Jasha Droppo, Xuedong Huang, Frank Seide, Mike Seltzer, An-
dreas Stolcke, Dong Yu, and Geoffrey Zweig. 2016. Achieving human parity in
conversational speech recognition. arXiv preprint arXiv:1610.05256 (2016).
[59] Yuzhuang Xu, Shuo Wang, Peng Li, Fuwen Luo, Xiaolong Wang, Weidong Liu,
and Yang Liu. 2023. Exploring large language models for communication games:
An empirical study on werewolf. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.04658 (2023).
[60] Ziwei Xu, Sanjay Jain, and Mohan Kankanhalli. 2024. Hallucination is inevitable:
An innate limitation of large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.11817
(2024).
[61] Hanqi Yan, Qinglin Zhu, Xinyu Wang, Lin Gui, and Yulan He. 2024. Mirror:
A Multiple-perspective Self-Reflection Method for Knowledge-rich Reasoning.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.14963 (2024).
[62] Shunyu Yao, Dian Yu, Jeffrey Zhao, Izhak Shafran, Thomas L Griffiths, Yuan Cao,
and Karthik Narasimhan. 2023. Tree of thoughts: Deliberate problem solving
with large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.10601 (2023).
[63] Yutao Zhu, Huaying Yuan, Shuting Wang, Jiongnan Liu, Wenhan Liu, Chen-
long Deng, Zhicheng Dou, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2023. Large language models for
information retrieval: A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.07107 (2023).
